[DOC-428][doc][ybm] CLI example for EAR (#26070)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/preview/yugabyte-cloud/managed-automation/managed-cli/managed-cli-examples/managed-cli-example-create.md

my-multi-region   Dedicated   2.14.7.0-b51   ACTIVE    💚        us-central1,+2   3         6 / 24GB / 600GB
```

> ## Create, update, and describe an EAR-enabled cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Encryption at rest

YugabyteDB Aeon supports [encryption at rest](../../../../cloud-secure-clusters/managed-ear) (EAR). Before you can create a cluster with EAR, you need to create a customer managed key (CMK) in a cloud provider Key Management Service (KMS). See [Prerequisites](../../../../cloud-secure-clusters/managed-ear/#prerequisites).
```

> ### Create an EAR-enabled cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create a cluster with EAR
```

> Use the following commands to create a new cluster with Encryption at Rest (EAR) enabled using a customer-managed key (CMK) in AWS, GCP, or Azure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following commands to create a new cluster with EAR in AWS, GCP, or Azure.
```

> AWS:

Reviewer: Use tabs - see the Prerequisites link for example

Author: I used tabs, and when I was switching tabs, it didn't reflect the data, and it remained the same with one of the tab data; maybe you can take a look once I update the PR.

```sh
ybm cluster create --encryption-spec cloud-provider=AWS,aws-secret-key=<your-secret-key>,aws-access-key=<your-access-key>
```

GCP:

```sh
ybm cluster create --encryption-spec cloud-provider=GCP,gcp-resource-id=projects/<your-project>/locations/<your-location>/keyRings/<your-key-ring-name>/cryptoKeys/<your-key-name>,gcp-service-account-path=creds.json
```

Azure:

```sh
ybm cluster create --encryption-spec cloud-provider=AZURE,azu-client-id=<your-client-id>,azu-client-secret=<your-client-secret>,azu-tenant-id=<your-tenant-id>,azu-key-name=test-key,azu-key-vault-uri=<your-key-vault-uri>
```

> ### Describe an EAR-enabled cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Use the following commands to display the CMK configuration details for a specific cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The EAR details are displayed with the cluster details.
```

AWS:

```sh

> ybm cluster describe --cluster-name test-cluster-azure

Reviewer: wrong cluster names

...
```

GCP:

```sh
ybm cluster describe --cluster-name test-cluster-azure
```

```output
General
Name                 ID                                     Version        State     Health
test-cluster-azure   b1676d3f-8898-4c04-a1d6-XXXXXXXXXXXX   2.18.3.0-b75   ACTIVE    💚

Provider   Tier        Fault Tolerance   Nodes     Node Res.(Vcpu/Mem/DiskGB/IOPS)
AWS        Dedicated   ZONE, RF 3        3         4 / 16GB / 200GB / 3000

...

Encryption at Rest
Provider   Key Alias      Last Rotated               Security Principals                                                                              CMK Status
GCP        GCP-test-key   2023-11-03T07:37:26.351Z   projects/<your-project-id>/locations/global/keyRings/GCP-test-key-ring/cryptoKeys/GCP-test-key   ACTIVE

...
```

### Update CMK configuration

Use the following commands to update the CMK configuration. If no existing configuration is found, the command creates a new one; otherwise, it updates the current configuration.

Note: Only credentials can be modified in the current configuration (for example, AWS access/secret keys or GCP service account credentials).

AWS:

```sh

> ybm cluster encryption update --encryption-spec cloud-provider=AWS,aws-secret-key=<your-secret-key>,aws-access-key=<your-access-key>

Reviewer: where is cluster name in these commands

Author: There is no cluster name in these commands, except when you describe your cluster, @arishta-yb could you please confirm?

Reviewer 2: @sudhanshu456 no, cluster-name is present in all the commands. Please check the doc. 

Let me summarize the exact commands once more:
1. Create a cluster:

```
./ybm cluster create --cluster-name test-cluster --cloud-provider AWS --cluster-tier Dedicated --cluster-type SYNCHRONOUS **--encryption-spec cloud-provider=AWS,aws-secret-key=l/AyrRxxxxxx,aws-access-key=AKIA23J7FV2xxxx,aws-arn=arn:aws:kms:us-east-1:745846189716:key/db272c8d-1592-4c73-bfa3-420d05822xxx** --credentials username=admin,password=password --fault-tolerance=ZONE --region-info region=us-east-2,num-nodes=3,num-cores=4
```

2. Describe /list the config 
```
./ybm cluster encryption list --cluster-name test-cluster
```

3. Update the state 
```
./ybm cluster encryption update --encryption-spec cloud-provider=AWS,aws-secret-key=l/AyrRxxxxxxsK/jitOo,aws-access-key=AKIA2x,aws-arn=arn:aws:xxxkms:us-east-1:745846189716:key/db272c8d-1592-4c73-bfa3-xxxx --cluster-name test-cluster
```

4. Enable or disable the cluster 
```
./ybm cluster encryption update-state --cluster-name test-cluster --enable
```

I hope it clears things up!!!

```

GCP:

```sh
ybm cluster encryption update --encryption-spec resource-id=projects/yugabyte/locations/global/keyRings/test-byok/cryptoKeys/key1,k=<path-to-service-account-file>
```

Azure:

```sh
ybm cluster encryption update --encryption-spec cloud-provider=AZURE,azu-client-id=<your-client-id>,azu-client-secret=<your-client-secret>,azu-tenant-id=<your-tenant-id>,azu-key-name=test-key,azu-key-vault-uri=<your-key-vault-uri>
```

### Update CMK state

Use the following commands to enable or disable the CMK state.

#### enable CMK

```sh

> ybm cluster encryption update-state --cluster-name test-cluster-arishta --enable

Reviewer: use a cluster name from one of the test clusters you create in the previous sections

docs page appears to be out of date https://docs.yugabyte.com/preview/yugabyte-cloud/managed-automation/managed-cli/managed-cli-reference/managed-cli-cluster/#encryption-update
update it

Author: Pushed the changes for this in same pr.

```

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab header="Azure" %}}

```sh
ybm cluster encryption update \
  --cluster-name my-sandbox \
  --encryption-spec cloud-provider=AZURE,azu-client-id=<new-client-id>,azu-client-secret=<new-client-secret>,azu-tenant-id=<new-tenant-id>,azu-key-name=test-key,azu-key-vault-uri=<new-key-vault-uri>
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabpane >}}

### Enable and disable EAR

To disable EAR on a cluster, use the following command:

```sh
ybm cluster encryption update-state \
  --cluster-name my-sandbox \
  --disable
```

```output
Successfully DISABLED encryption at rest for cluster my-sandbox
```

After you disable EAR, YugabyteDB Aeon uses lazy decryption to decrypt the cluster.

You can check the status of the EAR using the encryption list command.

```sh
ybm cluster encryption list --cluster-name my-sandbox
```

```output
Provider   Key Alias                              Last Rotated               Security Principals                      CMK Status
AZURE      8aXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX5b   2023-11-03T07:37:26.351Z   <your-key-vault-uri>   NOT_ACTIVE

> ```

Author: @arishta-yb I didn't get any output for this command when CMK is disabled. Could you tell me what the CMK status would be in that case? Would it be NOT_ACTIVE or DISABLED in the `encryption list` command output?

Name           Tier        Version           State     Health    Provider   Regions     Nodes     Node Res.(Vcpu/Mem/DiskGB/IOPS)
my-sandbox   Dedicated   {{< yb-version version="preview" format="build">}}       ACTIVE    💚        GCP        us-central1   3         4 / 16GB / 200GB / 3000
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab header="Azure" %}}

```sh
ybm cluster create \
  --cluster-name my-sandbox \
  --cloud-provider AZURE \
  --cluster-tier Dedicated \
  --cluster-type SYNCHRONOUS \
  --encryption-spec cloud-provider=AZURE,azu-client-id=<your-client-id>,azu-client-secret=<your-client-secret>,azu-tenant-id=<your-tenant-id>,azu-key-name=test-key,azu-key-vault-uri=<your-key-vault-uri> \ 
  --credentials username=admin,password=password \
  --fault-tolerance=ZONE --region-info region=eastus,num-nodes=3,num-cores=4 \
```

```output
The cluster my-sandbox has been created
Name           Tier        Version           State     Health    Provider   Regions     Nodes     Node Res.(Vcpu/Mem/DiskGB/IOPS)
my-sandbox   Dedicated   {{< yb-version version="preview" format="build">}}       ACTIVE    💚        AZURE      eastus   3         4 / 16GB / 200GB / 3000
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabpane >}}

> The EAR details are displayed with the cluster details.

Author: Which two tabs are you saying? aws and gcp tabs?

Provider   Key Alias                              Last Rotated               Security Principals                      CMK Status
AZURE      8aXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX5b   2023-11-03T07:37:26.351Z   <your-key-vault-uri>   ACTIVE

Nodes
Name                    Region[zone]            Health    Master    Tserver   ReadReplica   Used Memory(MB)
my-sandbox-n1   eastus[eastusa]   💚        ✅        ✅        ❌            75MB
my-sandbox-n2   eastus[eastusb]   💚        ✅        ✅        ❌            96MB
my-sandbox-n3   eastus[eastusc]   💚        ✅        ✅        ❌            76MB
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabpane >}}

There is also an alternate way to list the EAR configuration directly, using the encryption list command.

```sh
ybm cluster encryption describe --cluster-name my-sandbox
```

```output
A newer version is available. Please upgrade to the latest version v0.1.22
Provider   Key Alias                              Last Rotated   Security Principals                                                           CMK Status
AWS        XXXXXXXX-e690-42fc-b209-baf969930b2c   -              arn:aws:kms:us-east-1:712345678912:key/db272c8d-1592-4c73-bfa3-420d05822933   ACTIVE
```

> ### Update CMK configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Rotate your CMK
```

> Use the following commands to update the CMK configuration. If no existing configuration is found, the command creates a new one; otherwise, it updates the current configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following commands to rotate your CMK. You can also use these commands to encrypt a cluster where the specified cluster does not already have EAR.
```

> Note: Only credentials can be modified in the current configuration (for example, AWS access/secret keys or GCP service account credentials).

Reviewer 2: `update` command will allow the user to replace the existing key with a new one

> Note: Only credentials can be modified in the current configuration (for example, AWS access/secret keys or GCP service account credentials).

Reviewer: @arishta-yb it says you can only modify credentials; what am I missing

> Note: Only credentials can be modified in the current configuration (for example, AWS access/secret keys or GCP service account credentials).

Reviewer 2: @ddhodge Thanks for pointing it out, it was correct when we did not support key rotation, but since we support it now, it is not required to mention it.

> Note: Only credentials can be modified in the current configuration (for example, AWS access/secret keys or GCP service account credentials).

Reviewer 2: Only this line is sufficient for update: 
```
Use the following commands to update the CMK configuration. If no existing configuration is found, the command creates a new one; otherwise, it updates the current configuration.
```

{{< tabpane text=true >}}

{{% tab header="AWS" %}}

```sh
ybm cluster encryption update \
  --cluster-name my-sandbox \

>   --encryption-spec cloud-provider=AWS,aws-secret-key=<your-secret-key>,aws-access-key=<your-access-key>

Reviewer: for whichever values are changing, replace 'your' with 'new'

```

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab header="GCP" %}}

```sh
ybm cluster encryption update \
  --cluster-name my-sandbox \

>   --encryption-spec cloud-provider=GCP,resource-id=projects/yugabyte/locations/global/keyRings/test-byok/cryptoKeys/key1,k=<path-to-service-account-file> 

Reviewer: This is not right

```

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab header="Azure" %}}

```sh
ybm cluster encryption update \
  --cluster-name my-sandbox \
  --encryption-spec cloud-provider=AZURE,azu-client-id=<your-client-id>,azu-client-secret=<your-client-secret>,azu-tenant-id=<your-tenant-id>,azu-key-name=test-key,azu-key-vault-uri=<your-key-vault-uri>
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabpane >}}

### Update CMK state

Use the following commands to enable or disable the CMK state.

#### enable CMK

```sh
ybm cluster encryption update-state \

>   --cluster-name my-sandbox

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  --cluster-name my-sandbox \
```

  --enable
```

```output
Successfully ENABLED encryption spec status for cluster my-sandbox
```

> #### disable CMK

Reviewer: maybe disable, then enable

```sh
ybm cluster encryption update-state \

>   --cluster-name my-sandbox

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  --cluster-name my-sandbox \
```

### Rotate your CMK

Use the following commands to rotate your CMK. You can also use these commands to encrypt a cluster where the specified cluster does not already have EAR.

Note: Only credentials can be modified in the current configuration (for example, AWS access/secret keys or GCP service account credentials).

{{< tabpane text=true >}}

{{% tab header="AWS" %}}

```sh
ybm cluster encryption update \
  --cluster-name my-sandbox \
  --encryption-spec cloud-provider=AWS,aws-secret-key=<new-secret-key>,aws-access-key=<new-access-key>
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab header="GCP" %}}

```sh
ybm cluster encryption update \
  --cluster-name my-sandbox \
  --encryption-spec cloud-provider=GCP,gcp-resource-id=projects/yugabyte/locations/global/keyRings/test-byok/cryptoKeys/key1,gcp-service-account-path=<path-to-service-account-file> 
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab header="Azure" %}}

```sh
ybm cluster encryption update \
  --cluster-name my-sandbox \
  --encryption-spec cloud-provider=AZURE,azu-client-id=<new-client-id>,azu-client-secret=<new-client-secret>,azu-tenant-id=<new-tenant-id>,azu-key-name=test-key,azu-key-vault-uri=<new-key-vault-uri>
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabpane >}}

> ### Update CMK state

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Enable and disable EAR
```

> Use the following commands to enable or disable the CMK state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To disable EAR on a cluster, use the following command:
```

> #### disable CMK

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```sh
ybm cluster encryption update-state \
  --cluster-name my-sandbox \
  --disable
```

```output
Successfully DISABLED encryption spec status for cluster my-sandbox
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you disable EAR, YugabyteDB Aeon uses lazy decryption to decrypt the cluster.

```

Reviewer: Add another encryption-list command to show status as not active

> #### enable CMK

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To re-enable EAR on a cluster, use the following command:
```

```sh
ybm cluster encryption update-state \
  --cluster-name my-sandbox \
  --enable
```

```output

> Successfully ENABLED encryption spec status for cluster my-sandbox

Reviewer: @arishta-yb the output message would be better saying something like "Successfully enabled/disabled encryption at rest for cluster [cluster name]"
Enabling the status of the encryption specification isn't the end goal of user.
I guess you can update the spec while disabled?

Reviewer 2: Makes sense, I will make the change.

Reviewer 2: PR link with the change: https://github.com/yugabyte/ybm-cli/pull/295

Reviewer 2: PR link with the change: https://github.com/yugabyte/ybm-cli/pull/295
